The task tutorial
The crime figures given by Paul a couple of weeks ago meant we could interrogate certain crimes. I was interested in violence and sexual offences. Using the filter button, I was able to isolate these.
But I wanted to compare England’s two largest cities. That meant I had to use the filter function once again to make sure I had just figures for London boroughs covered by the Met – surprisingly the force investigated crimes in Bradford, Bristol and Brighton, for example. The West Midlands was much easier to get the figures for Birmingham.
Once I had ‘cleaned’ these I was ready to look at the outcomes. Since these were for one month, I did not expect everything to be resolved. I used the COUNTIF function and created a formula: =COUNTIF(KFIRST:KLAST, “THE RESOLUTION).
For example, in the Met figures the formula was =COUNTIF(K1:K20997, “Investigation complete; no suspect identified”)
My first intention was to show that Birmingham was safer than London when it came to violence and sexual attacks. But London has 3.6 or four times the population of Birmingham – so it doesn’t really help my thesis.
So, I just went on scale. I thought the best, and most accurate, news line was the fact that London has massive numbers of violent and sexual attacks compared to Birmingham – 4.4 times as many. 
Throughout my career, I’ve always tried to break down figures into understandable chunks, and we can identify with one hour and one day. Since it was just 31 days, I decided to see if it was worthwhile looking at the daily and hourly tally for this particular crime.
If I had the time, I’d look at each crime and interrogate the figures to see which was the highest, lowest, most shocking etc. I would also look at ‘sleepy places’ such as Devon and Cornwall to see whether the figures show anything. 
To expand the story, we could ask the respective mayors for comment, and try to see what women’s groups think of the fact that so few violent and sexual attacks are ever resolved. That would be my preference – to humanise the data into a strong headline. Also, to answer the question why? Why did the police fail to find a suspect in so many cases? Why did they drop the case in the public interest? Why does the police lump violence and sexual offences together? Some sexual offences are coerced, where victims are groomed. I would also like to have the figures in terms of age, gender and ethnicity. 
I would love help to create graphs which actually have the right labels. I tried on excel and word – and they were not successful. I wanted two basic ones – the two cities combined and two separate ones which show how the offence was ‘resolved’ or not.
